# Improving-a-Prescription-Medication-App

There is an inherent requirement for the provider to acknowledge treatment plans and prognostic indicators that are to be carried out at home. The goal of this approach is to form a connection with the patient that is deeper and more personal, and to provide a comprehensive picture of the patient's home life and routine activities. Once this connection is made, the provider will theoretically have a bird's eye view of the patient rather than just a snippet of information regarding their overall health when the patient comes in for an appointment. This kind of effort is ideal for obtaining the clearest possible picture of the patient's condition in the time between regularly scheduled doctor visits.
It is possible that a scheduled visit will only provide a limited view of the patient's wellbeing, particularly if the patient does not have any complaints to report. However, there are times when the patient may have some difficulty with medical supplies or with mobility, or the patient may have developed a new allergy, but the patient inadvertently forgets to mention this new information to the provider. How can the provider better determine whether a given day-to-day status update will have an impact on the quality of life and activities of daily living? This update might have originated from somewhere unexpected, like the home health aide (HHA), and it might have been suggested by the group that you use this application.
The application programming interface, or API, is being developed with serious intent so that it will be possible to download and upload data from the EHR at regular intervals using inputs from the HHA, Nurse, and/or provider. If the end user obtains any new information from the pharmacy portal or the EHR patient portal, they will be able to quickly add and update this information, providing the most accurate view possible of the patient's medical record. The application programming interface (API) is designed with the user in mind, and its functionality will leave very little to the imagination in terms of limiting the number of mouse clicks and keystrokes to prevent accidental errors. For example, data entry in the pharmacy's graphical user interface (GUI) enables a straightforward download key to be obtained directly from the pharmacy over a protected wireless network. Except for pertinent information relating to the most recent medications, dosing/strength changes if necessary, and any omissions as well as or discontinuations of drugs from the treatment plan, patient identifiers are not transmitted. Most importantly, the API is patient driven. This means that the data is specific to a given patient or care provider who is logged in with unique user credentials. Additionally, the data is based on the medical record number (MRN), date of birth, and name of the patient. The existing GUI is non-aesthetically pleasing and the color combination does not help with cognitive load. The contrast of blue/black fonts on a blue background makes contrast poor.


The primary purpose of medication tracker and pill schedule applications is to facilitate the organization of medication consumption via the use of digital technologies. When patients need medicine, they immediately contact their doctor to arrange and change their medication plan. Prior to incorporating the medications in question in the prescription plan, the multifunctional medication applications allow their users to conduct the interaction checker test to minimize cognitive and functional impairment concerns (such as for side effects, allergy alerts, etc.). To assist treatment requiring the ingestion of many pills, patients pick pill tracker applications that allow them to follow various dosage regimens for different drugs without additional effort and get notifications when pill stock is identified to be depleted. The applications reduce the amount of time patients must spend searching for their medications. A simple click on the screen is all that is required to pick a filter for showing the medication's cost (including the most affordable offers) and the location of a nearby pharmacy.
The expansion of the medication management app market is driven by the implementation of several techniques targeted at enhancing drug use. The majority of medication management applications function using the following mechanisms: Offering consumers educational material about medicine usage (textual or video-based). Sending notifications to users (short messages, notifications within an app, alerts on the device). Enhancing the health management capabilities of users (booking the appointments related to medical plan, easy access to medication history, etc.). The storage of user information based on personal monitoring parameters that may encourage healthy behaviors. Moreover, external tracking capability. E-billing services medication management applications may offer options for expediting payments for recurring prescriptions, automating medicine invoices, and generating a payment history. Enabling users to get online prescriptions: if the app's functionality supports this method, the doctor may electronically prescribe medication for common conditions.
This concept resonated with most of the members in the group since our parents and grandparents are required to take prescriptions, yet they frequently forget to do so. It may be their pride that prevents them from asking for assistance when they forget something. To assist them in remembering their pills, they want a medication management application that is user-friendly and visually appealing. Our targeted demographic is the elderly, who frequently forget to take their pills, as well as loved ones or caregivers who can regulate the timing and scheduling of drugs for patients under their care, typically the elderly population but also pediatric patients. We believe we can incorporate a parental option into the application so that caregivers may utilize it to care for their patients. Our group will detail the research conducted and decisions made throughout the development of this medication management application. The app has a prescription, a timeline for health information and how the drug is working, the ability to track side effects, the ability to plan, the ability to connect with other smart devices, and a checker for drug interactions. This mobile health application is for both adults and children who often forget to take their medications, as well as for the people who take care of them. Additionally, you may find additional help by searching for a nearby physician. Some individuals find it difficult to master new apps in an ever-expanding digital environment, and people tend to forget things, such as their prescriptions, more frequently today. People want a method to remember to take their medicines that does not require them to learn complex systems. Make software that is easy to use so that people do not forget to take their medications, can easily find nearby pharmacies and clinics, and can get help from their loved ones if they need it. We began the project with an emphasis on the entire user experience and a user-centric design. Throughout the process, we used a variety of research methods to gather information that we then used to design the app.


Summarily, This project applies basic Human-Computer Interaction rules to improve an existing Medication Prescription application. New functionalities were added such as a security login system, summary notes, API system to ensure the integrity of medication request because manual requests are much more error prone.
